The issue that happens in the human mind
is when chaos occurs. What we do is we
get scared. We think in binary terms,
I'm either going to survive or I'm not
going to survive. And the other thing
that happens, we think that there's a
false end. Like, oh my gosh, I'm going
to lose my job. But we can't think, oh,
I'm get a better job. And so I thought
it would be really a great idea to make
a video talking about how when the world
falls apart, when there's chaos, it
requires us to fully feel the fear so we
can get to the other side of the fear
and to look through it and say, "Oh,
this is this time for opportunity."
So when the world is in chaos, it is a
time full of massive opportunity. It is
also a time where growth is most likely
to happen. Just like if you're in a
relationship and the relationship falls
apart, that's a time when you can get a
lot of growth, a lot of personal growth
where you can learn a lot about
yourself. Or the time that you lose a
job is a time where you can learn a lot
about yourself. Transition is a place of
growth. Think about it like a forest
fire for a second. We tried to stop
forest fires. We tried to stop that
chaos. We tried to stop that transition.
And what did we do? We got really
overwhelmed, overgrown forests that when
they burnt, they burnt a lot hotter. We
found out things like redwood trees and
trees need fire to open up their seeds
to get new growth. We created stagnation
whereas
the native people who lived before would
light the forest on fire on a regular
basis. They would burn the forest so
that they would have a healthier forest.
So there was more space to hunt so that
there was not as much overgrowth. So
similarly there's a way to look forward
and and go yeah let's let's have a
little chaos. Let's have some
transition. Let's grow from it. And
there's a way to say, "Oh, let's stop
it." But when we say, "Let's stop it.
Let's prevent it," what we're doing is
we are creating more and more tension in
the system. So when that transition
inevitably occurs, it's just really big.
So in this opportunity of a transition
in the world, the first and most
important step is to look back and see
it for what it is. Get a 30,000 foot
view. see that transition is part of
life and that the fear of it is only
going to hold you back from making the
opportunity to make a better life, a
better planet for everybody. So
typically what I see happen in these
moments of chaos is a large part of
society gets scared and then they get
very binary. This is right and this is
wrong. But when you look at it from a
perspective of though this is
transition, the fire is not right. The
fire is not wrong. The fire is just
doing what the fire is doing. It could
only exist because the environment is
ripe for the fire. And then that
perspective is incredibly useful. Oh,
all of them are holding wisdom. The wolf
holds wisdom. The deer holds wisdom. The
forest fire holds wisdom. The
environment allows for wolves. The
environment allows for deer. And so when
you think about the opportunity, the
opportunity is in shifting the
environment. It's not in attacking the
wolf and saying the wolf is bad. And a
great example of this, which really
rhymes with the other example, is there
was this guy named Leopold. He was on
the Kaibab Plateau, which is one of the
plateaus on one of the sides of the
Grand Canyon. And because it was this
high place that animals couldn't get on
and off, they had their own species of
deer. And as a good early
environmentalist, he said, "I want to
save the deer, and I'm going to shoot
all the mountain lions." So they shot
all the mountain lions. The deer's
population went from, don't quote me,
but something like 30,000 to 100,000 to
300,000 to like 600
because there was a natural balance
that was with the deer and the mountain
lion. This balance is part of life. If
the balance is lost, then we're going to
have these big major falls. So, that's
the first thing. Second thing is to
really understand what it is that you
want to have come into the world. What
what is it that you're looking for in
this transition? both for yourself and
for your children and for society at
large. If you're really only focused on
yourself, then what's going to happen is
you're far more prone to fear.
But if you're thinking about it in a in
a in a bigger way, oh, how do I help all
of society?
How do I help my children and my
children's children? That allows it to
not be personal and allows you to have a
more calm state of mind. If you're only
thinking about the other people, if
you're only thinking about society and
you're not thinking about you, you're
not going to have the kind of solutions
that are practical that are going to
make a huge difference. Because if it
doesn't apply to you, if you're not
thinking about how it works for the
individual, then most likely what's
going to happen is you're going to think
about a concept that is just a concept.
And you can see there have been
transitions in our world where ideas
come and I'll use communism as an
example.
great idea, but it didn't work on an
individual basis because people weren't
saying, "Oh, I want to be doing the same
job for the rest of my life and not have
any way to get ahead." No, that doesn't
work for me. And so, it's really
important to keep the perspective of
both the individual and the society at
large if you're going to have the most
impact in a world that's in chaos.
The other really important point of view
to help you get the most out of a a time
when the world is in chaos is to go into
the fear, to go into the pain, to go
into the problem rather than to try to
run away from it. Let's say you're
getting a divorce. To feel in to to the
to the transition is a form of
purification. It's a way in which we
become better. It's the lesson that
we're here to learn.
And so if you go into the fear instead
of trying to avoid it, you have a lot
more options. Oh my gosh, I'm so scared.
This is never going to happen. I got
this binary set of options. If I feel my
fear and I fully feel, oh wait, this
isn't just fear. This is some
excitement. This is like, oh my gosh,
what's going to happen? What what's
possible? How do we make this better?
All of those feelings get to flow in
your system. If you cut it off, if you
avoid that fear, then all you get is
this constriction in your system. And
that really limits your ability to
think. So the first thing is to go into
it. And when you go into it, one of the
things that happens is it allows you to
see what's actually there. And the
opportunities that are right there are
usually can't be seen years out. They
can only be seen in this moment that's
happening two or 3 weeks, maybe two or
three months ahead of time. So think
about how COVID moved through the
system. There was a whole bunch of
people at the beginning that were, "Oh
yeah, this is going to last one or two
weeks. No problem." Any kind of
historical evidence whatsoever would
have told you, "No, this is going to
last more than two or three weeks." You
could have just looked at the Spanish
influenza, but I don't want to actually
feel the fact that I might be stuck in
my house for six months, so I'm just
going to deny it.
If you could feel, oh, I'm going to be
stuck in my house for two to six months.
What does that mean? Oh, well, that
means I have an opportunity to get close
to my family. That means I have an
opportunity to buy a house out in the
country before everybody else does. That
means I have an opportunity to invest in
electronics because that's what
everybody's going to buy because there's
still Amazon. It it shows you all sorts
of opportunities that you cannot have if
you avoid this feeling of, "Oh my god,
I'm stuck in this house for a
year. This is going to suck." You have
to actually feel that. You have to allow
that feeling to go through the system.
Get past the fear. Get on the other side
of the fear. Not by denying the fear but
by feeling the fear and then boom you
can start seeing the opportunities that
are just right ahead of you.
So right now we are in a a chaotic time
in our society and it it seems to happen
every 80 years. You can historically
look back and and see every 80 year 80
85 years or so you can see these chaotic
times arise and you can see that our
institutions change about every year 80
years and there's this opportunity for
the system to get a lot better that you
can only get that opportunity when there
is a transition. And so the question is,
can you allow yourself to feel and
understand, oh, this is a time of
transition? Things are going to change.
My life is going to probably change. Can
I accept that? Can I allow for that to
happen? Can I see the fight that wants
to happen, the forest fire that wants to
happen? Where do I want to be
positioned? Where do I want to position
society for that? That's the opportunity
that's here. And what I've noticed is
that when people come to me in periods
of chaos,
whether it's a societal chaos like
COVID, or whether it's personal chaos
like divorce or losing a job, and they
really say, "I'm going to lean in here."
The growth that they experience is
phenomenal because there's this natural
motivator to grow that you don't have if
everything's good. If you can just keep
on hanging out and watching your
television and your suburban lifestyle
and buy the next pair of Clark shoes or
the Nike tennis shoes,
no reason to change, no motivation. But
when you know the world's on fire, when
there's oh my gosh, economy is not
potentially going to look the same in 6
months. Oh my gosh, like we might be in
a great war that's happening. Then
there's this opportunity to say, "Oh,
whoa, whoa. Why? I have to do something.
Something has got to change. Are we
going to do this thing? Yeah, we're
going to do this thing." And so, if you
can lean in, if you can move through the
fear, not avoid the fear, move through
the anger, not avoid the anger, then you
have this opportunity to make a massive
difference in your life and the life of
other people.